NIP-29: define explicit role permissions and access schema on kind 39003 (#2316)
nostr-protocol/nips: 29.md

## Group management

Groups can have any number of users with elevated access. These users are identified by role labels defined by the relay (see also the description of `kind:39003`).

Roles are identity and presentation labels. Roles by themselves MUST NOT imply moderation capability. Moderation capability is derived from explicit `role-permission` definitions in `kind:39003`.

Roles can be assigned by publishing a `kind:9000` event with that user's pubkey in a `p` tag and the roles afterwards (even if the user is already a group member a `kind:9000` can be issued and the user roles must just be updated).

> The roles supported by the group and their properties MUST be advertised in `kind:39003`. Relays MUST reject role assignments in `kind:9000` that include role names not advertised in the current `kind:39003` for that group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The roles supported by the group and their properties MAY be advertised in `kind:39003`. Relays MUST reject role assignments in `kind:9000` that include role names not advertised in the current `kind:39003` for that group.
```

I think it would be reasonable for some relay implementations to keep role assignments of regular members private.

> Users with roles that grant elevated capabilities can be listed in `kind:39001` as _admins_ in a broad sense, but `kind:39001` is informational and not the authorization source of truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users with roles that grant elevated capabilities can be listed in `kind:39001` as _admins_, alongside their assigned roles.
```

- *moderation events* (`kinds:9000-9020`) (optional)

Clients can send these events to a relay in order to accomplish a moderation action. Relays MUST check if the pubkey sending the event is capable of performing the given action based on the group's current `kind:39003` role definitions.

> For privileged moderation actions, authorization MUST be derived from `role-permission` tags in `kind:39003`, not role names and not `role-order`.

Reviewer: These two lines are probably not necessary. The roles are not authoritative, they're actually just a way for relays to represent its internal policy. Relays' policy may differ in subtle ways from advertised roles. The way you've phrased some of this PR seems to obligate the relay to do certain things based on the role definitions, but in reality the role definitions are an attempt to accurately reflect the relay-enforced group policy.

| 9008 | `delete-group`  |                                                                                  |
| 9009 | `create-invite` | arbitrary `code`                                                                 |

> For `kind:9000`, relays MUST reject assignments that reference unknown roles (roles that are not defined in current `kind:39003`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `kind:9000`, relays SHOULD reject assignments that reference unknown roles (roles that are not defined in current `kind:39003`).
```

Each admin is listed along with one or more roles. These roles SHOULD have a correspondence with the roles supported by the relay, as advertised by the `kind:39003` event.

> This event is informational. Relays MUST NOT use `kind:39001` as the source of truth for authorization decisions.

Reviewer: I would remove this
